Deprecation Warnings blogpost (#143)
fastruby/blog: _posts/2020-04-13-deprecation-warnings-rails-guide.markdown

---
layout: post
title: "The Complete Guide for Deprecation Warnings in Rails"
date: 2020-04-13 12:00:00
categories: ["rails", "upgrades"]
author: luciano
---

> Deprecation warnings are a common thing in the software world. They are warnings that notify the developer that a specific feature (e.g. a method) will be removed soon (usually in the next [Minor](https://semver.org/) version) and should be replaced with something else.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Deprecation warnings are a common thing in our industry. They are warnings that notify us that a specific feature (e.g. a method) will be removed soon (usually in the next [minor](https://semver.org/) or major version) and should be replaced with something else.
```

Reviewer 2: > usually in the next [Minor] 

It depends of the kind of deprecation.

[Minor] If it has an alternative or the change is backward compatible 
[Major] the feature, method, command, whatever is removed without replacement or is not backward compatible

> Features are deprecated rather than immediately removed, to provide backward compatibility (a solution that works in both the current and the future version), and to give programmers time to implement the code in a way that follows the new standard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Features are deprecated rather than immediately removed, in order to provide backward compatibility (a solution that works in both the current and the future version), and to give programmers time to implement the code in a way that follows the new standard.
```

> In this guide we'll show you what's the workflow that we use at [FastRuby.io](https://www.fastruby.io) to address deprecation warnings when we [upgrade Rails applications](https://www.fastruby.io/blog/tags/upgrades).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In this guide we'll show you what the workflow is that we use at [FastRuby.io](https://www.fastruby.io) to address deprecation warnings when we [upgrade Rails applications](https://www.fastruby.io/blog/tags/upgrades).
```

<!--more-->

## Finding

There are a few different ways to find deprecation warnings in your application.

> If you have good test coverage, you can run the whole test suite and look at the logs that were genarated. If you are using a CI service (like [CircleCI](https://circleci.com/) or [Travis CI](https://travis-ci.org/)) you can easily see the logs once the build finished running. Otherwise, if you run the tests locally, you can look at the output on the console or in the `log/test.log` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have good test coverage, you can run the whole test suite and look at the logs that were generated. If you are using a CI service (like [CircleCI](https://circleci.com/) or [Travis CI](https://travis-ci.org/)) you can easily see the logs once the build finished running. Otherwise, if you run the tests locally, you can look at the output on the console or in the `log/test.log` file.
```

> If you have good test coverage, you can run the whole test suite and look at the logs that were generated. If you are using a CI service (like [CircleCI](https://circleci.com/) or [Travis CI](https://travis-ci.org/)) you can easily see the logs once the build finished running. Otherwise, if you run the tests locally, you can look at the output on the console or in the `log/test.log` file.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you have good test coverage, you can run the whole test suite and look at the logs that were generated. If you are using a CI service (like [CircleCI](https://circleci.com/) or [Travis CI](https://travis-ci.org/)) you can easily see the logs once the build finishes running. Otherwise, if you run the tests locally, you can look at the output in the console or in the `log/test.log` file.
```

> All deprecation warnings start with `DEPRECATION WARNING:`, so you can search for that in the logs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Rails, all deprecation warnings start with `DEPRECATION WARNING:`, so you can search for that string in your logs.
```

> When it comes to production, the easier way to collect deprecation warnings is by using a monitoring tool (like [Honeybadger](https://www.honeybadger.io/) or [Airbrake](https://airbrake.io/)).

Reviewer 3: consider using "easiest" instead of "easier". Consider using "discover" instead of "collect".

> When it comes to production, the easier way to collect deprecation warnings is by using a monitoring tool (like [Honeybadger](https://www.honeybadger.io/) or [Airbrake](https://airbrake.io/)).

Author: ```suggestion
When it comes to production, the easiest  way to discover deprecation warnings is by using a monitoring tool (like [Honeybadger](https://www.honeybadger.io/) or [Airbrake](https://airbrake.io/)).
```

> In order to send the deprecation warnings to one of these tools, you would have to do something like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is not standard behavior, but it is quite useful. In order to send deprecation warnings to one of these tools, you would have to do something like this:
```

```ruby
# config/environments/production.rb

config.active_support.deprecation = :notify
```

```ruby
# config/initializers/deprecation_warnings.rb

ActiveSupport::Notifications.subscribe('deprecation.rails') do |name, start, finish, id, payload|
  # Example if you use Honeybadger:
  Honeybadger.notify(
    error_class:   "deprecation_warning",
    error_message: payload[:message],
    backtrace:     payload[:callstack]
  )
end
```

See [this link](https://guides.rubyonrails.org/active_support_instrumentation.html#subscribing-to-an-event) for more details about `ActiveSupport::Notifications.subscribe`.

> You can also set `config.active_support.deprecation` to `:log` and look at the `log/production.log` file, but it won't be as straightforward as the first option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also set `config.active_support.deprecation` to `:log` and look at the `log/production.log` file, but it won't be as straightforward as the first option. Depending on the traffic your application gets, your `production.log` might have a lot of noise. 
```

## Tracking

> Once you have all the deprecation warnings (or most of them) from your application, it is a good a idea to track them as if they were issues.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Once you have all the deprecation warnings (or most of them) from your application, it is a good idea to track them as if they were issues.
```

> You can use the project management tool of your preference (we use [Pivotal Tracker](https://www.ombulabs.com/blog/agile/pivotal-tracker/how-we-use-pivotal-tracker-at-ombu-labs.html)) and create a ticket in the backlog for each of the deprecation warnings. That way it makes things a lot easier when it comes to code review and organization in general.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the project management tool of your preference (we use [Pivotal Tracker](https://www.ombulabs.com/blog/agile/pivotal-tracker/how-we-use-pivotal-tracker-at-ombu-labs.html)) and create a story in the backlog for each of the deprecation warnings. That way it makes things a lot easier when it comes to code review and organization in general.
```

> <img src="/assets/images/deprecation-warning-story.png" alt="Deprecation Warning Story for Rails Upgrade" />

Reviewer: @lubc You might want to specify that you want to create one story per root cause, not one per deprecation warning?

Also, it is a good idea to prioritize the deprecation warnings based on the frequency that they occur.
That way, you make sure you first work on the ones that fix the largest amount of errors for the next Rails version. You will clearly see that if you are using [dual booting](https://www.fastruby.io/blog/upgrade-rails/dual-boot/dual-boot-with-rails-6-0-beta.html) in your app.

## Fixing

> At this point you can grab a ticket from the top of the backlog and work on it. Most of the deprecation warnings are very clear on what and how needs to be updated. If that's not the case, a quick google search will provide more answers. Usually you will have to apply the same fix across many files, so make sure you search for all occurrences in the project folder.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At this point you can grab a story from the top of the backlog and work on it. Most of the deprecation warnings are very clear on what needs to be updated. If that's not the case, a quick google search will provide more answers. Usually you will have to apply the same fix across many files, so make sure you search for all occurrences in the project folder.
```

> Once the changes are done, run the appropriate specs or manually test the parts that were modified to make sure that everything works normal. Remember that the changes should be backwards compatible.

Reviewer: What do you mean by this? 

> Remember that the changes should be backwards compatible.

> Once the changes are done, run the appropriate specs or manually test the parts that were modified to make sure that everything works normal.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Once the changes are done, run the appropriate specs or manually test the parts that were modified to make sure that everything works normally.
```

> After that, you can create a new [Pull Request](https://www.ombulabs.com/blog/agile/learning/pull-requests/submitting-prs.html) and move on to the next deprecation warning on your backlog.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After that, you can create a new [pull request](https://www.ombulabs.com/blog/agile/learning/pull-requests/submitting-prs.html) and move on to the next deprecation warning on your backlog.
```

> ## Good Practices

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Best Practices
```

In order to not accumulate deprecation warnings in your application, it is a good practice to treat them as errors.
You can easily configure that in your in your `config/environments/test.rb` and `config/environments/development.rb` files:

```ruby
config.active_support.deprecation = :raise
```

### Avoiding Regressions

After you fix a deprecation warning in the project, you want to make sure that nobody introduces that deprecated code again.

#### Rubocop

> If you are using [Rubocop](https://github.com/rubocop-hq/rubocop), you can write a cops that check for deprecated code. Take a look at [Lint/DeprecatedClassMethods](https://github.com/rubocop-hq/rubocop/blob/master/lib/rubocop/cop/lint/deprecated_class_methods.rb) for some reference on that.

Reviewer 2: `you can write a cop to` or `you can write cops to`

> If you are using [Rubocop](https://github.com/rubocop-hq/rubocop), you can write a cop to check for deprecated code. Take a look at [Lint/DeprecatedClassMethods](https://github.com/rubocop-hq/rubocop/blob/master/lib/rubocop/cop/lint/deprecated_class_methods.rb) for some reference on that.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you are using [Rubocop](https://github.com/rubocop-hq/rubocop), you can write a cop to check for deprecated code. Take a look at [Lint/DeprecatedClassMethods](https://github.com/rubocop-hq/rubocop/blob/master/lib/rubocop/cop/lint/deprecated_class_methods.rb) for some references on that.
```

#### Disallowed deprecations in ActiveSupport

Rails 6.1 will come with a new feature to disallow deprecations. You'll be able to configure the deprecation warnings that you fixed as disallowed. If a disallowed deprecation is introduced, it will be treated as a failure and raise an exception in development and test. In production it will log the deprecation as an error.

```ruby
# config/environments/test.rb

ActiveSupport::Deprecation.disallowed_behavior = [:raise]
ActiveSupport::Deprecation.disallowed_warnings = [
  "uniq",
   :uniq,
  /(uniq)!?/,
]
```

> Check out at [this PR](https://github.com/rails/rails/pull/37940) for more details about this new feature.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Check out [this PR](https://github.com/rails/rails/pull/37940) for more details about this new feature.
```

## Conclusion

> Depending of the size of your application, addressing all deprecation warnings can take quite some time. But hopefully this guide will help you to do it faster.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Depending on the size of your application, addressing all deprecation warnings can take quite some time. But hopefully this guide will help you to do it faster.
```
